Devin Carter (born March 18, 2002) is an American professional basketball player for the Sacramento Kings of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played college basketball for the Providence Friars and the South Carolina Gamecocks.

Early life and high school career
Carter initially attended Cherry Creek High School in Greenwood Village, Colorado. He transferred to Doral Academy Preparatory School in Doral, Florida, after his freshman year, when his family relocated to Florida following his father, Anthony Carter, being hired as a player development coach for the Miami Heat. Carter's senior season was cut short due to a shoulder injury, and he opted to enroll at Brewster Academy in Wolfeboro, New Hampshire, for a postgraduate year. Carter was rated a three-star recruit and committed to playing college basketball for South Carolina during his senior year at Doral Academy.

College career
South Carolina
On December 13, 2021, Carter was named SEC Freshman of the Week. He helped South Carolina to a 66-65 win over Florida State University. He led the team with 16 points which was tied as career high and 7 rebounds. On March 8, 2022, Carter was named to the SEC All-Freshman team. He became the 13th Gamecock to be named to the SEC All-Freshman squad. He joined Michael Carrera, Sindarus Thornwell, AJ Lawson and Jermaine Couisnard. Carter played in 30 games during the 2021-2022 season and started in 7 of them. He averaged 9 points and 3.8 rebounds during the season.

Providence
As a sophomore, Carter transferred to Providence. He averaged 13 points and 4.9 rebounds in his first season with the Friars. 
In his second season at Providence, under first year head coach Kim English, he won both Big East First Team and Big East Player of the Year. Carter averaged nearly 20 points and 9 rebounds per game, establishing himself as one of the best players in college basketball. His outstanding scoring ability, tenacious defense, and high-motor impressed NBA scouts throughout his junior season.

Professional career
On June 26, 2024, Carter was selected with the thirteenth overall pick by the Sacramento Kings in the 2024 NBA draft and on July 9, he signed with the Kings. Throughout his rookie season, he was assigned several times to the Stockton Kings. On January 3, 2025, Carter made his NBA debut against the Memphis Grizzlies and his father Anthony, an assistant coach for the Grizzlies. He recorded 0  points, 5 rebounds and 2 assists. 
On October 14, 2025, the Kings exercised the third-year option on Carter. On March 10, 2026, Carter recorded a career-high 24 points in a 114–109 victory over the Indiana Pacers. On April 10, Carter increased his career-high to 29 points, also setting career-highs in rebounds (nine) and three-pointers (six) during a 124–118 win over the Golden State Warriors.

Personal life
Carter is the son of Anthony Carter and Cassie Carter. He has one brother named Joshua.

Career statistics
NBA
College
See also
List of second-generation NBA players

References
External links
Providence Friars bio
South Carolina Gamecocks bio