Jarace Isaiah Walker ( JAIR-əss; born September 4, 2003) is an American professional basketball player for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). Walker was a consensus five-star recruit and one of the top players in the 2022 class. He played college basketball for the Houston Cougars and was selected eighth overall by the Washington Wizards in the 2023 NBA draft before being traded to the Pacers later that offseason.

High school career
Walker attended Susquehannock High School in York County, Pennsylvania for his freshman year before transferring to IMG Academy in Bradenton, Florida. As a senior, he averaged 16.7 points, 8.2 rebounds and four assists per game. He was selected to play in the 2022 McDonalds All-American Game.

Recruiting
Walker was a consensus five-star recruit and one of the top players in the 2022 class, according to major recruiting services. On November 4, 2021, he committed to playing college basketball for Houston over offers from Alabama and Auburn.

Professional career
The Washington Wizards selected Walker with the eighth overall pick in the 2023 NBA draft and traded him to the Indiana Pacers along with two future second-round picks for the draft rights to Bilal Coulibaly, the seventh overall pick. Walker became the highest-drafted prospect from the University of Houston since Hall-of-Famer Hakeem Olajuwon was taken with the first overall pick by the Houston Rockets in 1984. On July 1, 2023, Walker signed his rookie contract with the Pacers alongside the 26th overall pick Ben Sheppard. Walker's playing time was limited his rookie season, playing behind Pascal Siakam and Obi Toppin as the team reached the 2024 Eastern Conference Finals.
On May 31, 2025, during game 6 of the Eastern Conference Finals against the New York Knicks, Walker suffered an ankle injury in the 125-108 victory which closed out the series. Walker was on crutches after the game and Pacers coach Rick Carlisle said that Walker's availability for the 2025 NBA Finals against the Oklahoma City Thunder was uncertain. Walker was ultimately ruled out for the entirety of the NBA Finals as the Pacers lost the series in the deciding Game 7.
Prior to the start of the 2025-26 NBA season, Walker recovered from his ankle injury.

Personal life
Walker is the son of Marcia and Horace Walker. He has three older sisters: Jaden, Natichia and Sherelle. Sherelle played volleyball at UMBC and sister Jaden played basketball at Saint Joseph's.

Career statistics
NBA
Regular season
Playoffs
College
References
External links
Houston Cougars bio
USA Basketball bio