Thomas Francis Sorber (born December 25, 2005) is an American professional basketball player for the Oklahoma City Thunder of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played college basketball for the Georgetown Hoyas.

Early life and high school career
Sorber grew up in Trenton, New Jersey, and initially attended Trenton Catholic Academy. He transferred to Archbishop Ryan High School in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania after his freshman year. As a sophomore, Sorber averaged 16.5 points per game and led the Philadelphia Catholic League in rebounding.

Recruiting
Sorber was rated a four-star recruit and committed to playing college basketball for Georgetown over offers from Miami (Florida), Providence, and Villanova.

College career
Sorber scored 20 points and grabbed 13 rebounds in his college debut against Lehigh. He scored 25 points with nine rebounds in the next game against Fairfield and was named the Big East Conference Rookie of the Week for the first week of the season.
At the conclusion of his freshman season, Sorber was named to the All-Big East Third Team and was a unanimous selection to the Big East All-Freshman team. As a freshman, he averaged 14.5 points, 8.5 rebounds and 2.4 assists per game. On March 27, 2025, Sorber declared for the 2025 NBA draft while maintaining his college eligibility. He later decided to remain in the draft.

Professional career
On June 25, 2025, Sorber was selected as the 15th overall pick in the 2025 NBA draft, by the Oklahoma City Thunder. His selection made him the first player in the history of Georgetown basketball to be drafted directly into the NBA as a freshman. On September 4, Sorber sustained a torn ACL in his right knee during an offseason workout, causing him to miss the 2025–26 season.

Career statistics
College
Personal life
His family is from Liberia, where his late father, Peter Sorber Sr., was a star soccer player. Thomas' sister, Regina, played basketball at Alabama A&M University and brother, Peter Jr., played basketball at Morgan State University and Lincoln University (Pennsylvania).

References
External links
Career statistics from NBA.com  · Basketball Reference 
Georgetown Hoyas bio