Cason David Wallace ( KAY-sən, kay-SON; born November 7, 2003) is an American professional basketball player for the Oklahoma City Thunder of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He was a consensus five-star recruit and a top five player in the 2022 class. He played one season of college basketball for the Kentucky Wildcats before being selected 10th overall by the Thunder in the 2023 NBA draft. He won an NBA championship with the Thunder in 2025.

High school career
Wallace attended Richardson High School in Richardson, Texas where he played alongside of Rylan Griffen under coach Kevin Lawson and assistant coach Mike Bangs. As a senior, he was the Gatorade Basketball Player of the Year for Texas and The Dallas Morning News boys basketball Player of the Year after averaging 19.9 points, 7.4 rebounds and 6.1 assists per game. He was selected to play in the 2022 McDonald's All-American Game and the Jordan Brand Classic. A five-star recruit, Wallace committed to the University of Kentucky to play college basketball.

Professional career
The Dallas Mavericks selected Wallace with the tenth overall pick in the 2023 NBA draft then traded him, along with Dāvis Bertāns, to the Oklahoma City Thunder in exchange for the 12th overall pick, Dereck Lively II.
Wallace averaged 8.4 points, 3.4 rebounds, and 2.5 assists across 68 regular-season games before a shoulder injury sidelined him late in the year. Fully recovered for the postseason, Wallace returned to play in every game of the 2025 NBA Playoffs, helping the Oklahoma City Thunder clinch the franchise’s first NBA championship with a victory over the Indiana Pacers.

Career statistics
NBA
Regular season
Playoffs
College
Personal life
Wallace is cousin to 2012 NBA champion Terrel Harris and two-time Super Bowl champion, Super Bowl XXXII Most Valuable Player, and Pro Football Hall of Fame running back Terrell Davis.
His older brother Keaton Wallace plays for the Atlanta Hawks. In June 2025, UCLA Bruins player Kiki Rice revealed that she is in a romantic relationship with Wallace and that they met in a Junior NBA program when Rice was in the 8th grade.

References
External links
Career statistics from NBA.com  · Basketball Reference 
Kentucky Wildcats bio
USA Basketball bio