Cedric De'Von Coward (born September 11, 2003) is an American professional basketball player for the Memphis Grizzlies of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played college basketball for the Willamette Bearcats, Eastern Washington Eagles, and Washington State Cougars. He is the grandson of Maxie Parks.

Early life and high school career
Coward grew up in Fresno, California and attended Central High School.

College career
Coward began his college career at Division III Willamette University. In his only season with the Bearcats, averaged 19.5 points and 12.0 rebounds per game and was named the Northwest Conference Freshman of the Year and first-team All-Northwest.
After his freshman season, Coward transferred to Eastern Washington University. In his first season with the Eastern Washington Eagles, he averaged 7.3 points per game with 5.6 rebounds per game Coward was named first-team All-Big Sky Conference as a junior after averaging 15.4 points and 6.7 rebounds per game. After the season, he entered the NCAA transfer portal.
Coward committed to transfer to Washington State. He suffered a season-ending shoulder injury six games into his first season with the team. At the time of his injury, Coward was the Cougars' leading scorer at 17.7 points per game and was averaging seven rebounds per game.
Following his senior season, Coward entered the transfer portal along with declaring for the 2025 NBA draft. On April 28, 2025, he committed to Duke, but kept his name in the draft. After the NBA Combine, Coward announced on May 24 that he would forgo playing at Duke and remain in the draft pool.

Professional career
Coward was drafted 11th overall by the Portland Trail Blazers in the 2025 NBA draft and subsequently traded to the Memphis Grizzlies for Yang Hansen and future draft considerations. He signed with the Grizzlies on July 8.
On October 25, 2025, Coward put up 27 points on 6-for-6 shooting from three-point range in a 128–103 win over the Indiana Pacers. He became the first rookie in Grizzlies franchise history to record at least six made three-pointers in a game without a miss.

Career statistics
NBA
College
NCAA Division I
NCAA Division III
References
External links
Career statistics from NBA.com  · Basketball Reference 
Washington State Cougars bio
Eastern Washington Eagles bio
Willamette Bearcats bio