Chaz Harrison Lanier (born December 19, 2001) is an American professional basketball player for the Detroit Pistons of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played college basketball for the North Florida Ospreys and the Tennessee Volunteers.

High school career
Lanier attended The Ensworth School in Nashville, Tennessee. As a freshman in high school, Lanier stood at five feet and six inches, then as a sophomore, he grew to five feet and nine inches, throughout his junior and senior year, he would continue to grow.

College career
At the conclusion of his high school career, he committed to the University of North Florida to play for North Florida Ospreys. In his first three seasons, he played primarily in a backup role. As a senior during the 2023–24 season, he averaged 19.7 points per game and was named to the first team All-ASUN. At the conclusion of the season, Lanier entered the transfer portal. On May 24, 2024, he transferred to the University of Tennessee to play for the Tennessee Volunteers. With Tennessee, he emerged as the team's leading scorer. In his first game with Tennessee, Lanier scored a team high 18 points, leading the Volunteers to an 80–64 win over Gardner–Webb. Against Miami in the Jimmy V Classic, he led the Volunteers in scoring with 22 points, in a 75–62 victory.

Professional career
On the second night of the 2025 NBA draft, Lanier was selected in the second round with the 37th pick by the Detroit Pistons. He later signed a four-year $8.79 million contract with the team. On October 24, Lanier made his NBA debut with the team, playing 11 minutes. In those minutes, Lanier grabbed one rebound and scored three points in a 115–111 win against the Houston Rockets. On November 18, Lanier scored a career high in points, scoring nine points, and grabbing two rebound in 11 minutes of play in a 120–112 win against the Atlanta Hawks. On December 7, Lanier was later assigned to the Motor City Cruise of the NBA G League. On December 10, Lanier scored a career high with the NBA-League team, scoring 40 points in 38 minutes of play.

Career statistics
NBA
College
Personal life
Lanier's parents are Thomas and Stacey Lanier. Both his parents played collegiate basketball, with his dad playing at Lipscomb University, and his mom playing at Alcorn State University. Lanier also has a brother named Trey.

References
External links
Career statistics from NBA.com  · Basketball Reference 
Tennessee Volunteers bio
North Florida Ospreys bio