Cody Leron Williams (born November 20, 2004) is an American professional basketball player for the Utah Jazz of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played college basketball for the Colorado Buffaloes. He was a consensus five-star recruit and one of the top players in the 2023 class. He is the younger brother of Oklahoma City Thunder player Jalen Williams.

Early life
Williams was born in San Luis Obispo, California but grew up in Gilbert, Arizona after his family moved there when he was young. He attended Perry High School. As a junior, Williams was named the Premier Region Player of the Year after averaging 13 points, four rebounds, three assists, and two steals per game as Perry won the Class 6A state championship. Williams averaged 18.4 points, 6.7 rebounds, and four assists per game as a senior while leading the Pumas to a 30–1 record and a second consecutive state championship.
Williams was selected to play in the 2023 McDonald's All-American Boys Game during his senior year. He was also selected to play for Team USA in the Nike Hoops Summit.
Williams was a consensus five-star recruit and one of the top players in the 2023 class, according to major recruiting services. On November 9, 2022, Williams committed to playing college basketball for Colorado after considering offers from LSU, Arizona, UCLA, and USC. He became the highest-ranked committed recruit in program history and the first five-star recruit to join Colorado.

College career
As a freshman, Williams averaged 11.9 points and 3.0 rebounds per game, helping the Buffaloes earn a berth in the NCAA Tournament. He was named to the Pac-12 All-Freshman Team. Following the season Williams declared for the 2024 NBA draft.

Professional career
On June 26, 2024, Williams was selected with the tenth overall pick by the Utah Jazz in the 2024 NBA Draft and on July 2, he signed with them. Throughout his rookie season, he was assigned several times to the Salt Lake City Stars. In his rookie season, Williams averaged 4.6 points, 2.3 rebounds, and 1.2 assists.
Entering the 2025-2026 season, Williams began to see an increase in minutes, and in his increased role, he began to see some signs of improvement. In the 2025-2026 season, Williams also saw his first-ever start, where in the games against the Dallas Mavericks, he scored eight points, tallied four rebounds, and dished out two steals in 22 minutes of gameplay. On Saturday, January 10, 2026, in a demoralizing blow against the Charlotte Hornets, Williams finished the game with a -60, making it the worst +/- record in NBA history, beating both Scoot Henderson's and Jeremiah Robinson-Earl's record of -58. On March 15, Williams recorded a career-high 34 points with seven rebounds in a 111–113 loss to the Sacramento Kings.

National team career
Williams was named to the United States under-19 basketball team, which was coached by Colorado head coach Tad Boyle, to play in the 2023 FIBA Under-19 Basketball World Cup.

Career statistics
NBA
College
Personal life
Williams is the son of Ron and Nicole Williams. He has two older siblings, Jasmine and Jalen. Williams' older brother, Jalen Williams, currently plays for the Oklahoma City Thunder in the National Basketball Association.

References
External links

Career statistics from NBA.com · Basketball Reference
Colorado Buffaloes bio
USA Basketball bio