Collin Joseph Murray-Boyles (born June 10, 2005) is an American professional basketball player for the Toronto Raptors of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played college basketball for the South Carolina Gamecocks.

Early life and high school career
Murray-Boyles was born on June 10, 2005 and hails from Columbia, South Carolina. He attended A.C. Flora High School in Forest Acres, South Carolina, where he was named the Class 4A Player of the Year as a junior after helping Flora reach the state championship while averaging 34.3 points, 11.4 rebounds and 5.3 blocks. He transferred to Wasatch Academy in Mount Pleasant, Utah , for his senior season, and posted a team-leading average of 15 points and 8.8 rebounds per game; he was first in the conference in rebounds and third in points scored.

Recruiting
Murray-Boyles was a consensus four-star recruit and a top-100 player nationally following his performance at Wasatch. On August 7, 2022, he committed to playing college basketball for South Carolina.

College career
Prior to the 2023–24 season at South Carolina, Murray-Boyles contracted infectious mononucleosis, resulting in him missing significant time. He became a top player upon returning, including being named the Southeastern Conference (SEC) Freshman of the Week in February after performances that included a 31-point game over Vanderbilt. At the conclusion of the regular season, Murray-Boyles was named to the SEC All-Freshman Team.
Following the conclusion of his sophomore season, he declared for the 2025 NBA draft and received a green room invite in the second wave.

Professional career
Murray-Boyles was chosen ninth overall in the 2025 NBA draft by the Toronto Raptors. On July 1, 2025, Murray-Boyles signed a rookie-scale contract with the Raptors. On January 11, 2026, Murray-Boyles recorded 17 points, 15 rebounds, 3 blocks and 3 steals, propelling Toronto to a 116-115 overtime victory over the Philadelphia 76ers, becoming the first player in Raptors history to achieve those numbers in a game.

Career statistics
NBA
Regular season
Playoffs
College
References
External links
Career statistics from NBA.com  · Basketball Reference 
South Carolina Gamecocks bio