Enrique Gabriel Freeman (born July 29, 2000) is an American professional basketball player for the Minnesota Timberwolves of the National Basketball Association (NBA), on a two-way contract with the Iowa Wolves of the NBA G League. He played college basketball for the Akron Zips.

College career
After a prep career at St. Martin de Porres High School in Cleveland, Freeman had no college basketball offers. He accepted an academic scholarship to the University of Akron and at the urging of friends and family, tried out for a walk-on spot with the school's basketball team, earning a roster spot. He played sparingly as a freshman, totaling 13 minutes on the season. He grew four inches (10 cm) between his first and second years and earned a scholarship and a starting role for the Zips. He earned his first Mid-American Conference (MAC) all-defensive team honor.
As Freeman established himself as one of the top defensive players in the MAC during the 2021–22 season, his offense began to develop as well. He averaged a double-double for the season and led the nation in field goal percentage. He earned second-team All-MAC honors and was named the conference Defensive Player of the Year. He led the Zips to a MAC tournament title, and was named the tournament MVP.
Following the 2022–23 season, Freeman declared for the 2023 NBA draft but retained his college eligibility. He worked out for several teams but ultimately decided to return to Akron for his senior season.
Entering his final season at Akron, Freeman was named preseason All-MAC and added to the 20-man watch list for the Karl Malone Award for top power forward in the nation. On February 2, 2024, he was named to the 10-man finalist pool for the award.
At the close of the regular season, Freeman was named MAC Player of the Year.

Professional career
On June 27, 2024, Freeman was selected with the 50th overall pick by the Indiana Pacers in the 2024 NBA draft. On August 8, Freeman signed a two-way contract with them. Freeman made his NBA debut on October 23, in a 115–109 win over the Detroit Pistons, scoring 2 points.
On August 1, 2025, Freeman signed a two-way contract with the Minnesota Timberwolves.

Career statistics
NBA
College
Personal life
Freeman is of Puerto Rican descent.

References
External links
Akron Zips bio