Johni Broome (JUH-nye; born July 19, 2002) is an American professional basketball player for the Philadelphia 76ers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played college basketball for the Morehead State Eagles and the Auburn Tigers.

High school career
Broome attended Plant City High School in Plant City, Florida, and grew about six inches (15 cm) in two years. He transferred to Tampa Catholic High School in Tampa, Florida. As a senior, Broome averaged 19.6 points, 10.9 rebounds, and 2.2 blocks per game, and was named Hillsborough County Player of the Year. He committed to playing college basketball for Morehead State over offers from Florida Atlantic, Georgia Southern, Jacksonville, and Bryant.

College career
Broome immediately assumed an important role at Morehead State after Tyzhun Claude suffered a torn anterior cruciate ligament during practice before the season. At the conclusion of the regular season, he was named Ohio Valley Conference (OVC) Player of the Year and earned First Team All-OVC honors. He was a nine-time OVC Freshman of the Week, breaking the program record previously held by Kenneth Faried, who earned the accolade eight times. On March 6, 2021, Broome posted 27 points and 12 rebounds in an 86–71 win over top-seeded Belmont at the OVC tournament final. He was named tournament MVP. Broome averaged 13.8 points, nine rebounds, and 1.9 blocks per game as a freshman.
He averaged 16.8 points, 10.5 rebounds, and 3.9 blocks per game as a sophomore. As a sophomore, Broome was again named to the First Team All-OVC, as well as Defensive Player of the Year. On April 4, 2022, Broome entered the transfer portal. On April 30, 2022, Broome announced that he would be transferring to Auburn over Florida. 
In the 2024–25 season, Broome helped Auburn secure a top seed in the NCAA Division I tournament by leading the Tigers in points, rebounds, assists, and blocks. He was named The Sporting News Men's College Basketball Player of the Year.

Professional career
Broome was selected by the Philadelphia 76ers with the 35th pick in the 2025 NBA Draft. In his pre-season debut against the New York Knicks in Abu Dhabi, Broome scored four points and had six rebounds. On January 16, 2026, while playing for the Delaware Blue Coats, Broome recorded 50 points and 17 rebounds in a 155–140 victory over the College Park Skyhawks. On February 22, Broome was ruled out indefinitely after being diagnosed with a lateral meniscus tear in his right knee.

Career statistics
NBA
Regular season
Playoffs
College
Personal life
Broome is a Christian. Broome's older brother, John Jr., played college football for FIU. His favorite NBA player is James Harden.

See also
List of NCAA Division I men's basketball players with 2,000 points and 1,000 rebounds
List of NCAA Division I men's basketball career rebounding leaders
List of NCAA Division I men's basketball career blocks leaders
List of NCAA Division I men's basketball career games played leaders

References
External links
Career statistics from NBA.com  · Basketball Reference 
Auburn Tigers bio
Morehead State Eagles bio