Jonathan Michael Mogbo ( MOH-boh; born October 29, 2001) is an American basketball player for the Toronto Raptors of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played college basketball for the Independence CC Pirates, the Northeastern Oklahoma A&M Golden Norsemen, the Missouri State Bears and the San Francisco Dons.

Early life and high school career
Mogbo was raised in Wellington, Florida, by his parents Chuck and Karen Mogbo. His father is of Nigerian descent and his mother is Jamaican. Mogbo has two older stepbrothers and one older brother.
Mogbo played football while growing up and did not start playing organized basketball until he was in the fourth grade. He played alongside future Toronto Raptors teammate Scottie Barnes on an Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) basketball team. Barnes lived with Mogbo and his family during his freshman year when they both attended Cardinal Newman High School in West Palm Beach, Florida. Mogbo later attended Forest Hill Community High School.

College career
Mogbo had no Division I scholarship offers in high school and began his college basketball career at Independence Community College. He transferred to Northeastern Oklahoma A&M College before the start of his sophomore season. Mogbo averaged 14.3 points, 10.3 rebounds, and 1.4 blocks per game with the Golden Norsemen.
Mogbo transferred to Missouri State for his junior season. He was the Bears' starting power forward and averaged eight points, seven rebounds, 1.4 assists, 1.3 steals and 1.1 blocks per game. After the season, Mogbo entered NCAA transfer portal.
Mogbo ultimately transferred to San Francisco. He was named the West Coast Conference (WCC) Newcomer of the Year and first-team All-WCC after averaging 14.2 points and a conference-high 10.1 rebounds per game. After the season, Mogbo declared for the 2024 NBA draft and re-entered the NCAA transfer portal. He opted to remain in the draft and forgo his remaining season of college eligibility.

Professional career
On June 27, 2024, Mogbo was selected with the 31st overall pick by the Toronto Raptors in the 2024 NBA draft and on July 4, he signed with them. During his rookie season, he was  assigned several times to Raptors 905. On April 9, 2025, Mogbo recorded his first career triple-double with 17 points, 11 assists, and 10 rebounds in a 126–96 win over the Charlotte Hornets.

Career statistics
NBA
Regular season
Playoffs
College
NCAA Division I
NJCAA
References
External links
San Francisco Dons bio
Missouri State Bears bio
Northeastern Oklahoma A&M Golden Norsemen bio
Independence CC Pirates bio