Olivier-Maxence Prosper ( ə-LIV-ee-ay MAK-sənss PROSS-pər; born July 3, 2002), nicknamed "OMax", is a Canadian professional basketball player for the Memphis Grizzlies of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played college basketball for the Clemson Tigers and Marquette Golden Eagles.

Early life and high school
Prosper grew up in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Prosper's father Gaetan moved to Montreal from Haiti as a child. He initially attended L'Académie Ste-Thérèse, which did not have a basketball team. When Prosper was 16 he enrolled at Lake Forest Academy in Lake Forest, Illinois. Prosper transferred to the NBA Academy Latin America in Mexico City, Mexico to finish his high school career. He was rated a four-star recruit and committed to play college basketball at Clemson.

College career
Prosper began his college career at Clemson. He averaged ten minutes of play and 2.5 points per game as a freshman. After the season, Prosper entered the NCAA transfer portal.
Prosper ultimately transferred to Marquette. He averaged 6.6 points and 3.3 rebounds in his first season with the Golden Eagles. Prosper averaged 12.5 points, 4.7 rebounds, and 0.9 steals per game as a junior. After the season, he entered the 2023 NBA draft, showcasing impressive performances at the NBA Draft Combine.

Professional career
Prosper was drafted 24th overall by the Sacramento Kings in the 2023 NBA draft. Shortly after, his draft rights were traded, along with Richaun Holmes, to the Dallas Mavericks in exchange for cash considerations and on July 16, 2023, he signed with the Mavericks. On November 11, Prosper was assigned to the Mavericks’ G League affiliate, the Texas Legends.
On April 14, 2024, in the Mavericks' season finale against the Detroit Pistons, Prosper earned his first career start, logging 16 points, 6 rebounds, and 2 steals in 29 minutes. Later in the season, the Mavericks, along with Prosper, reached the 2024 NBA Finals; they subsequently lost to the Boston Celtics in five games.
Prosper made 52 appearances (four starts) for Dallas during the 2024–25 NBA season, averaging 3.9 points, 2.4 rebounds, and 0.8 assists. On March 7, 2025, it was announced that Prosper would require season-ending surgery to repair ligament damage in his right wrist. On September 2, Prosper was waived by the Mavericks.
On September 4, 2025, Prosper signed a two-way contract with the Memphis Grizzlies. On February 7, 2026, Prosper scored a career-high 25 points in addition to five rebounds in a loss to the Portland Trail Blazers. On March 4, the Grizzlies signed Prosper to a standard, two-year NBA contract.

Career statistics
NBA
Regular season
Playoffs
College
Personal life
Prosper's parents both played college basketball at Concordia University and were both multiple-time RSEQ All-Stars, his mother Guylaine competed for the Canada women's national basketball team. His sister, Cassandre, plays basketball for the Washington Mystics.

References
External links
Career statistics from NBA.com  · Basketball Reference 
Clemson Tigers bio
Marquette Golden Eagles bio
FIBA profile