Trey Alexander (born May 2, 2003) is an American professional basketball player for the New Orleans Pelicans of the National Basketball Association (NBA), on a two-way contract with the Birmingham Squadron of the NBA G League. He played college basketball for the Creighton Bluejays.

Early life and high school career
Alexander grew up in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and attended Heritage Hall School. He was named the Oklahoma Gatorade Player of the Year after averaging 23.6 points, 8.7 rebounds, four assists, and 2.1 steals per game as a senior. Alexander was rated a four-star recruit. In November 2020, he committed to playing college basketball for Auburn over offers from Arkansas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Ole Miss, and Kansas. Alexander decommitted from the program at the end of his senior season. He later signed to play for Creighton.

College career
Alexander played in all 35 of Creighton's games during his freshman season and was named to the Big East Conference All-Freshman team after averaging 7.4 points, 3.7 rebounds, and 2.5 assists per game. He became the Bluejays' starting point guard after Ryan Nembhard suffered a season-ending injury. Alexander averaged 11.6 points, 4.3 assists, and four assists during the final eight games of the season.
Alexander entered his sophomore season as Creighton's starting shooting guard.

Professional career
Denver Nuggets (2024–2025)
After going undrafted in the 2024 NBA draft, Alexander joined the Denver Nuggets for the 2024 NBA Summer League and on July 10, 2024, he signed a two-way contract with the team.

New Orleans Pelicans (2025–present)
On July 3, 2025, Alexander signed with the New Orleans Pelicans on a two-way contract.

Personal life
Alexander is the son of Steve and Pamela Alexander. He has one sister. His uncle, D'Angelo Alexander, played basketball at University of Oklahoma and his other uncle, Xavier Alexander, played basketball at George Washington University. Alexander and Mike Conley Jr. are cousins on his mother's side.

Career statistics
NBA
College
References
External links
Creighton Bluejays bio