Zyon Pullin (born March 3, 2001) is an American professional basketball player for the Minnesota Timberwolves of the National Basketball Association, on a two-way contract with the Iowa Wolves of the NBA G League. He played college basketball for the UC Riverside Highlanders and Florida Gators.

Early life and high school career
Pullin grew up in Pleasant Hill, California and attended College Park High School.

College career
Pullin began his college career at UC Riverside. He averaged 14.3 points, 5.6 rebounds, and 4.3 assists per game and was named second-team All-Big West during his junior season. Pullin was named first-team All-Big West as a senior after averaging 18.3 points, 4.4 rebounds and 4.2 assists per game as the Highlanders had their winningest season ever. After the season, Pullin decided to utilize the extra year of eligibility granted to college athletes who played in the 2020 season due to COVID-19 pandemic and entered the NCAA transfer portal.
Pullin transferred to Florida. He was suspended for the first three games of the season by the NCAA for his participation in the 2023 Portsmouth Invitational Tournament, a non-sanctioned offseason tournament for recently graduated players pursuing a professional career. Pullin was named first-team All-Southeastern Conference in his only season with the Gators after averaging 15.5 points and 4.9 assists per game.

Professional career
After going undrafted in the 2024 NBA draft, Pullin signed a two-way contract with the Miami Heat on July 1, 2024. However, he was waived on July 25 and signed an Exhibit 10 contract on August 5, being later waived on October 19. On October 28, he joined the Sioux Falls Skyforce.
On January 10, 2025, Pullin signed a two-way contract with the Memphis Grizzlies. Pullin played three games for the Grizzlies, scoring no points. In eleven G League games for the Memphis Hustle, Pullin averaged 18.8 points per game. Pullin was waived by the Grizzlies on November 20, following the signing of PJ Hall.
On November 6, 2025, Pullin was named to the Iowa Wolves' opening night roster. On March 2, 2026, Pullin signed a two-way contract with the Minnesota Timberwolves.

Career statistics
NBA
College
References
External links
UC Riverside Highlanders bio
Florida Gators bio